♪♪♪
(Flames crackle)
(Keys clink)
(Pulley cranks, chains clank)
Benton: Make sure his bonds
are tight.
- (Grunts)
- That's it.
- (Growls)
- Take off the hood.
- (Breathing angrily)
♪♪♪
- Michael Smyth is still
at large?
- Yes, sir.
He can't be far.
- Find him.
(Receding footsteps)
- Every building, every alley!
I want every corner searched
until Michael Smyth is found!
(Redcoats shout urgently)
♪♪♪
(Knock on door)
(Door squeaks open)
(Footsteps thud)
- Sit tight and stay quiet.
You'll be safe here.
(Door thuds shut)
- (Panting)
(Lantern thuds)
- (Winces)
- You're bleedin'. Let me see.
- This is your fault!
The redcoats followed you.
Lord Benton set up a trap,
and you walked right into it
like a fool!
Harp is like a brother to me.
- It's impressive.
The fear you provoke in others.
It demands respect.
We're going to have a
discussion about respect,
or more precisely,
your lack of respect for me.
(Blades clank)
- (Grunts)
♪♪♪
(Native singing)
Emberly: He's not in the jail.
Nobody's seen him.
- Are you sure he's still alive?
- Benton's obsessed with Harp,
he's not gonna kill him,
not straight off.
- He'll have him stashed
some place out of the way.
- Well, I want to know where.
Get out there, both of you.
Talk to whoever you can -
Company men, soldiers.
Just be discreet.
(Townspeople chatter)
(Door squeaks opens)
(Cups clank)
(Footsteps thud)
- Michael Smyth and the woman.
Where are they?
- How should I know?
- They were under
your protection.
- Says who?
And while we're at it,
your soldiers made quite
a mess last night.
I thought we were working
together?
- They were in your back room.
Why were you giving
them shelter?
- I wasn't.
- What is Declan Harp to you,
Grace?
What the fuck is going on?
- You're being paranoid.
- Am I?
- Why would I take such
a ridiculous risk?
Harp is nothing to me.
And I have no idea where
the others are.
(Fire crackles)
♪♪♪
(Door squeaks open)
(Door shuts)
Benton: I would like
to propose a tally.
(Harp exhales)
- How many of my men have
you killed of late?
Seven at the outpost...
- (Sharp gasp of pain)
(Pained grunting)
(Angry grunt of pain)
- Another five on the evening
you stole the Lake Walker boy.
(Footsteps scuff)
♪♪♪
- (Growls)
- Oh, have I forgotten someone?
Oh yes, last night,
two more at the ale house.
- (Grunts)
(Gasps in pain)
(Winces)
- Fourteen men, my men.
Fourteen English soldiers.
Fourteen wives bereft
and grieving.
Fourteen sons made orphans,
just like yourself.
Fourteen death sentences
for Declan Harp.
Perhaps I shall hang
you fourteen times.
♪♪♪
You turned your back on me,
Declan.
You betrayed me.
And you will admit this.
You will show me respect
and you will beg my forgiveness.
(Crow caws)
Michael: I made a mistake.
I just couldn't bear
the thought of Clenna
in that house with Benton.
- You should have known
they would follow.
- I thought I was being careful.
- You double back, you see
if they're behind you!
- You're right!
I wasn't thinkin'. I'm sorry.
♪♪♪
Harp's not dead, he can't be.
We shouldn't be down here!
We should find him and help him!
- Not until it's safe!
(Sharp exhale)
♪♪♪
(Winces)
- Do you need help?
♪♪♪
- (Grunts)
(Bottle clanks,
liquor sloshes)
(Bottle thuds)
♪♪♪
- Here.
It's shallow.
It's not bad.
That doesn't hurt?
- Of course it hurts.
Everything hurts.
♪♪♪
(Winces)
Are there any more?
- Um, no. You're good.
♪♪♪
- (Winces)
You went after your woman,
you came back alone.
(Footsteps crunch)
♪♪♪
- Stay here.
Soldier: Yes, sir.
(Door shuts)
Captain Johnson for Lord Benton!
Hello?
(Footsteps thud)
♪♪♪
(Glass breaks)
Clenna: Oh! Stop it!
Let go of me!
Chesterfield: Be quiet!
- Captain Chesterfield,
what is this?!
- None of your concern!
- I am under Lord Benton's
protection!
(Door bangs)
- Captain do not walk away
from me, sir!
Chesterfield! Is it true
you've captured Declan Harp?
He's not in the jail.
Where is he?!
I wish to see him!
Chesterfield!
Gather our men together. Now.
(Cart clatters,
townspeople chatter)
- I don't care how much
we owe him,
we need to take him down.
- Have you lost your fuckin'
mind, eh?!
Samuel Grant's got us
by the balls, Douglas.
The last thing we should do
is antagonize him.
- So you'd rather we take
a bullet in the eye?!
- Don't be dramatic.
- I was there!
I saw it!
- This is exactly why I didna
want to take his money
in the first place!
- That's not the point!
- What did I say? I said,
"It's a terrible fuckin' idea"
and I was right!
(Door shuts)
Oh, who the fuck is that now?
(Approaching footsteps)
Pond: Douglas Brown.
Malcolm Brown.
You have defaulted
on a substantial debt.
By the order of Samuel Grant,
you are to be imprisoned
and brought to trial.
(Gun clicks)
(Hard punch)
- Ah! Fuck!
(Thumps down)
(Groans)
What are you doin'?!
Let go of me!
- Please.
Do resist again, hmm.
(Grunts and gasps)
(Bird caws)
(Door opens)
- Mrs. Elizabeth Carruthers.
(Approaching footsteps)
Grant: You have my condolences,
Madame,
for your most poignant loss.
(Light kiss)
Your husband was
an exceptional man.
- My husband was a drunkard.
I'm glad he's dead
and so are you.
You've certainly wasted no time,
sending a man to his funeral.
Hardly the sort of vulgar move
I expect from a man
of your standing.
- He was successful.
His enterprise covered
everything from trading
in raw pelts,
to selling beaver hats
and everything in-between.
He also opened up lucrative
trading routes west of the bay.
- You've done your research.
- Carruthers and Company
is a prize, Madame.
Enormous potential. Tell me...
are you planning
on running it yourself?
You could certainly
make a killing.
- But you'd never let that
happen, would you, Mr. Grant?
- No?
- Well, you want my husband's
company
and you will have it
at any cost.
I intend to fight you
tooth and nail.
- You will lose.
- Will I?
- Badly.
A much better path...
would be for us
to work together.
- Better why?
- (Sharp inhale and exhale)
Because, well, of course,
you are a woman
in a man's world,
a man's trade.
My dear, you must realize,
what you need more than anything
is a man.
- Such as yourself.
Surely you would discard me
at the first opportunity,
as you have, no doubt,
so many women before.
- I suppose that's a risk
you'll have to take.
Consider my offer.
And please join me tonight
for dinner.
We can discuss the future.
♪♪♪
(Doors bang open)
(Patrons chatter)
- If any of you know the
whereabouts of Michael Smyth,
I have a message!
- What are you doing?
- If he wants his girl to live,
he will turn himself in!
- If you do not wish
your secrets to be aired aloud,
you will let her go.
- You will mind your business,
Grace!
- I mean it, Chesterfield.
- (Grunts)
- (Gasps and grunts)
- What is the matter with you?!
You know I will not allow you
to threaten the life
of an innocent girl!
- It is not your place
to allow me anything!
- I will go to Lord Benton.
I will tell him you've been
stealing Company furs
and forcing me to store them.
- You're bluffing.
- Am I?
(Fire crackles)
- I'll find him without her.
Clenna: That's right,
you go, you arsehole!
- (Sighs)
You must be Clenna Dolan.
Michael: She's only
just arrived.
She's still getting
her bearings.
I was all disoriented too
when I first came ashore.
It doesn't mean anything.
She's just, she's frightened.
Who can blame her?
(Sighs)
She just needs time to adjust.
That's all.
What I can't believe is how
I almost left her behind.
I mean, what was I thinking?
- You should let her go.
Harp was right.
She won't survive here.
- You don't know her.
She's strong, she's fierce.
- She's an Irish girl.
- So what?
- She's soft.
She'll slow you down.
- You haven't even met her.
- I know.
I don't think
she's the one for you.
♪♪♪
- (Slurp and gulps)
Your father would be appalled.
- (Sharp exhale)
Do you remember your father?
You were how old when he died?
Seven? Eight?
My God, he was a boring man,
and not terribly bright,
but a proper Company man,
with his Indian wife,
and his young half-breed son.
He begged me on his deathbed.
(Mock choking)
"Take care of my boy."
(Mock coughing)
Coughing up blood.
And I did.
(Glass thumps down)
I taught you.
Trade routes, inventory.
The storage and transport
of pelts.
About the wealth it brought.
And you were a quick learner.
- (Muted grunt)
(Struggling gasps)
- We were a team,
conquering the New World
together.
(Stabbing thrust)
- (Gasp of pain, chains rattle)
- You were my disciple,
my shining star,
and I was your mentor,
your new father.
I gave you everything,
and what did I get in return?
Nothing but disloyalty
and disrespect.
- (Sharp grunt of pain)
- Oh, something to say?
- I always hated you.
As soon as I could get away
from you, I did.
(Grunts in pain, blood spurts)
(Fierce growl)
(Winces, calming gasps)
(Gulping)
Douglas: I knew this would
happen. I told you.
We should never have taken
money from Samuel Grant.
- Don't even think
about blaming me.
- I'm languishing in this prison
because you were stubborn.
- If it wasna for the mess
you made up North
we wouldna be here!
- You've been mismanaging things
for years!
- What?!
- Running the business into
the fucking ground!
- I'm the only thing
that's kept you from starving,
you ungrateful, foul-mouthed--
- You're a fuckin' idiot!
(Hard thump)
- (Grunting gasp)
- (Straining grunt)
(Hard thump)
Both: (Grunt and groan)
(Metallic rapping)
(Keys clink)
(Lock clanks)
(Door squeaks open)
- (Grunts)
(Pants)
Douglas: Elizabeth.
You know my brother, Malcolm.
It's Carruthers' widow.
- (Clears throat)
Elizabeth, aye.
My condolences, a terrible loss.
- To what do we owe this--
- I've arranged to pay
your debt to Samuel Grant
and release you from prison.
- On what condition?
- I require that you hand over
control to me of your business,
the Low River Company.
And...
I require a husband.
Either of you will do.
It's your choice.
Do you accept?
Good. I shall obtain
your release.
(Keys clink)
(Door bangs shut)
(Lock clanks)
(Birds chirp)
- Were you there when she died?
I'm sorry, you don't have--
I shouldn't have asked that.
Sokanon: I was hunting.
Harp had taken me.
We heard the musket fire
across the lake,
the screaming.
We saw the camp burning.
We ran and ran and...
when we got there
the redcoats had gone.
Benton had gone.
My sister...
on the ground.
She was with their son.
There was so much blood.
(Sighs)
♪♪♪
(Crow caws)
Benton: I'm the devil, am I?
Because I see them
as less than human,
as savages,
feed them cheap brandy
and take their land.
And so to prove me wrong
you went with them,
took one as your wife.
You forced me to teach
you a lesson
because you turned away from me.
That's why your family
was killed,
and you have no one to blame
but yourself.
(Metallic scrape)
- (Screams in pain)
(Growls wildly)
(Gasps and grunts)
(Heavy breathing)
(Door opens and shuts)
(Chains clink)
- What?!
- Sir, it's Captain Johnson.
He's becoming impossible.
- And the boy,
have you found him?
- No sir, I--
- Find him!
(Receding footsteps)
(Door opens and shuts)
(Lock rattles,
scurrying footsteps)
(Floorboard creak)
(Door squeaks open and thumps)
Emberly: We think he's being
kept in the magazine.
- Let's go get him.
- No, it's not safe yet,
and he'll be well-guarded.
I've brought you food and ale.
- Well, how much longer do we
have to...
Clenna?
- And I've brought you
something else.
(Footstep thud)
(Door squeaks shut)
- Emberly.
Thanks.
- I'll check back as soon
as I can.
(Door shuts)
- Are you all right?
Clenna, this is Sokanon.
- Hello.
- She's Anishinaabe.
She's a friend.
- Does she speak English?
- He's told me many things
about you.
- Has he?
Like what?
- We should eat.
(Footsteps thud)
(Sack rustles)
(Fur coat thuds lightly)
(Low hum of chatter)
(Water drips in the distance)
- (Chuckles)
It's fuckin' insanity!
Marry her? Give her the company?
Fuck that!
(Approaching footsteps)
(Keys clink)
(Clapping)
- Good news.
(Lock clanks)
Your debt to Mr. Grant
has been paid.
You're free to go.
However, Douglas Brown...
(Door bangs shut)
you've been charged with
the murder of Peter Carruthers.
- You're jokin'.
You're the one who killed him!
This is ridiculous!
Malcolm! You sort this out!
(Clanking bang)
(Frustrated shout) Agh!
Benton: No, it's too easy
for you to blame me.
I'm not destroying this world.
I am bringing light
into the darkness
with the gift of civilization,
lifting up the land
and its people.
It requires violence, yes,
it's a brutal place,
but I am its savior.
I am its future.
And I demand respect.
Say the words, Declan.
"Forgive me father,
for I have wronged you."
(Receding footsteps)
- (Sharp exhales)
(Sighs)
Malcolm: I have one condition
of my own.
My brother's still in jail.
Elizabeth: For?
- The murder of your husband.
- And you want me
to get him out.
- Aye.
Pay a bribe, whatever it takes.
- I can't just snap my fingers,
Mr. Brown.
- All I'm askin' is that
you fuck...
(Clears throat)
is... is that you try.
(Approaching steps clunk)
- You will not touch me.
We will live in the same house,
separate rooms.
You will not enter my room,
not ever.
Regarding matters of business,
you will do exactly
what I tell you.
Do you agree?
I can't hear you.
- Aye.
- Good. Then I believe
we have a deal.
(Receding footsteps)
- What about my brother?
- I'll see what I can do.
Good day, Mr. Brown.
(Door shuts)
(Marching footsteps)
♪♪♪
- Don't be stupid.
(Door opens)
Secure the house.
Upstairs, back room, kitchen.
- What do you think
you're doing?
- I wish to speak
to Lord Benton.
- Sir, you do not have the
authority to come in here--
- You will fetch Lord Benton,
wherever he is
and bring him here.
At once, soldier.
- Where the fuck
is Chesterfield?
(Townspeople chatter)
(Door squeaks open and closes)
- Is she in the back?
(Patrons chatter)
(Footsteps thud)
- It's all right, Mary.
Leave us.
- (Sighs)
Perhaps I was a bit rough
with the girl, Clenna.
- Is that an apology?
- I hold you in high regard,
Grace, you know this -
your strength
and your intelligence
and your beauty,
but these are difficult times
and I need to be able
to trust you,
and I need you to trust me.
Are you in love
with Declan Harp?
- What?
- Because backing him
is beyond foolish.
Your loyalty needs to be
with me, not him.
- So he's still alive then?
You haven't killed him?
He's in the magazine, isn't he?
- How would you know that?
- Forget about Harp.
You need to be dealing
with Captain Johnson.
He's a much bigger threat.
Now if you're not careful,
he'll be Governor
while you're standing here
with your thumb up your arse! -
What would you have me do?
His men are loyal,
they outnumber mine.
- Turns out the man of God
is also a degenerate sinner,
a fornicator.
- You know this how?
- There was an incident here
involving one of my girls.
Arrest him, put him in jail.
I'll back you up.
So will my girl.
- Tell me I can trust you
when it matters,
'cause that time's coming.
- You can trust me.
Don't ever doubt it again.
(Receding footsteps)
(Birds chirp)
(Footsteps crunch,
horse whinnies in the distance)
(Door opens)
- Mrs. Elizabeth Carruthers
and guest.
- Mr. Brown.
- You don't mind that I brought
a friend, do you, Mr. Grant?
- On the contrary,
I'm delighted.
- Mr. Brown and I are engaged
to be married...
after, of course,
a suitable mourning period
for my poor husband.
You said it yourself, Mr. Grant.
I need a man.
I found one.
- Set another place at table.
It seems congratulations
are in order.
(Bottle clinks)
- We've been discussing
the future,
how to proceed.
Haven't we, my darling?
- Aye.
- Vis-a-vis the business.
Vis-a-vis the trading of furs.
As it turns out, we won't need
your backing, Mr. Grant.
- Won't you?
- Not unless you're willing
to accept
the leadership of Mr. Brown
here. My man.
- Mmm-mmm.
You've had a remarkable day,
Mr. Brown.
From rags to riches
it would seem.
- Aye.
A dream come fuckin' true.
(Loud gulp)
(Exhales loudly)
- What do you think?
- I think it's clear.
Let's go.
- Where is she going?
- If we wait any longer
it'll be too late.
(Door thuds)
- Keep our heads down.
Don't draw any attention.
- Michael, I think we should
wait for Emberly!
- Just stay close.
- Michael! Wait!
(Annoyed sigh)
(Door squeaks)
Redcoat: Chesterfield has men
posted at the magazine.
- What's that all about?
- I dunno. Prisoner I suppose.
- All right. Hoods up.
(Door squeaks open)
♪♪♪
Redcoat 3: Oi! Stop!
You three stop!
(Musket booms)
- Take Clenna and go! Go!
- What are you doing, Michael?!
- Where are you two going?!
(Hard punch)
- (Grunts in pain)
(Hard blows)
- (Grunts)
(Muskets click)
- (Pants)
- So arrogant!
So self-righteous!
You're no different from me.
You want power and wealth,
and you'll sacrifice
everything to get it.
Can't you see?
We are the same, you and I.
The only difference
is you have lost
and I have won.
Say it.
"Forgive me, father,
for I have wronged you."
- (Weakly) We. Are not.
The same.
(Violent blow)
- (Panting gasps)
(Wine pours)
- Do you know how
your family died?
They weren't just killed.
Your son, though a boy,
was strong.
He fought on longer than one
would expect from any child.
- No.
- He was desperately trying
to help his mother.
She was a strong woman. Hmm.
Very resilient.
And when she finally died,
she did so calling out
your name,
but of course there
was no answer.
Or rather, not the answer
she was hoping for.
- (Tearful) You lie.
- It was only at the end
that the true nature
of her condition was revealed.
- (Crying)
Benton: She was carrying
your unborn daughter.
- (Sobbing) No! No.
(Sobbing) No!
No, you fuckin' lie!
(Anguished cry)
No!
You fucking lie!
Chesterfield: Lord Benton!
Harp: (Sobs)
- Oh, excellent.
- Tie him up here.
Harp: No! No! No!
(Anguished cries)
- Sir,
Captain Johnson occupied the
Governor's House with his men.
He's demanding to see you.
Harp: (Anguished cries)
- Very well.
Harp: (Sobbing) You...
You lie!
(Anguished cries)
(Sobbing)
Benton: With me, Chesterfield.
(Door opens)
♪♪♪
Harp: (Cries quietly)
- He's got sentries
at every door,
as well as the Company
storehouse!
- And you've done nothing?
- Sir, I'm hardly going to
attack and start a civil war.
- You will put those down
or you will be hanged.
(Door opens)
- Let them in.
I hereby relieve you
of your command pending
a full investigation into--
- On what authority?!
Johnson: Into your affairs
here in Fort James
upon the authority
of Lord Winston Fisher--
- The suspicious death
of Governor Threadwell.
The apparent theft
of Company property-
- Get out from behind my desk!
- And your utter mismanagement
of Company affairs!
- You will be quiet,
you insolent cur,
or I shall have you horse--
- You'll pay for this!
You have no fuckin' idea!
I know what you've been doing
with those servant girls,
and I'm arresting
you for indecent behavior!
(Musket booms)
(Gun clanks)
- You were saying?
- So what precisely are your
intentions, Mr. Brown,
vis-a-vis business?
- My intended hopes
to succeed at your game -
take on the HBC to conquer it.
- And he honestly believes
he'll succeed?
- Well, of course he does.
He has the full weight of
Carruthers and Co. behind him.
- Ah.
- You also recognize that
Mr. Grant here is a predator,
don't you, my sweet?
He will make sure you fail.
He will contain you.
Neuter you, even.
- You really want to antagonize
him like this,
with Douglas still in jail?
- You needn't worry your
head about it, my sweet.
Best to keep your mouth shut.
- From the frying pan
to the fire, Mr. Brown.
You're really going
to marry this woman?
- To be honest, I'd rather cut
my own bullocks off.
Grant: Well, that's
a cautionary tale.
Remind me to never
get in her debt.
Sokanon: I'm not waiting
any longer.
I'm going to get Harp.
- The streets are still
crawling with redcoats.
You won't do anyone any good
by getting yourself killed!
- We know he's at the magazine.
Michael is probably there too.
I will free them.
Isn't that what you want?
- That's what we all want.
- Good.
Look after the girl.
- My name is Clenna,
and you need me if you're going
to get inside the magazine.
Unless you can pick
an English lock?
(Fire crackles)
- Come.
(Door squeaks open)
(Door closes)
- (Breathes hard)
Declan.
Declan!
♪♪♪
- Maybe you can draw them away?
You can make a noise
and they'll go see what it is
and then I can pick the lock.
- No. Go and approach them.
I'll do the rest.
- Approach them?
- Talk to them.
- About what?
- Anything.
I will protect you.
Now go!
- No wait! Sokanon!
(Brush rustles)
I don't know how you lads
do it, this cold.
It's brutal.
- Where'd you come from?
- Must have taken a wrong turn
somewhere.
I'm completely lost.
I'm looking for Lord Benton's--
(Blood splurting whack)
Jesus Christ!
(Harsh blow)
- (Gurgles in pain)
- (Gasps) My God!
You just killed them!
- Get to work.
(Heavy breathing)
(Lock clicks)
Clenna: Got it!
(Door opens)
- Get him down! Hurry!
- Are you all right?!
- I'm fine.
They didn't touch me.
He's lost a lot of blood!
(Grunts and pants)
♪♪♪
- His breath is shallow.
- We've got to get him back
to the ale house!
Miss Emberly will care for him--
- He's not safe in Fort James!
- Shh, shh, shh!
Johnson: Back to town,
raise the alarm. Careful.
(Door opens)
- Soldiers are coming.
- Go, go!
(Dull thud)
(Door shuts)
- Guard the entrance.
- Aye.
♪♪♪
(Hard thud)
- (Gasps sharply)
(Slicing blow)
(Grunts)
Ah! Ooh!
- (Struggling grunts)
(Slicing blow)
♪♪♪
(Blade clinks)
- (Shaky exhales)
♪♪♪
- Hunt, Malcolm.
(Unsteady footsteps)
Found you a wee match.
(Flint scrapes)
(Drunken grunt)
What the fuck?
Oh, what now?
- I've been thinking about
your brother, Cedric.
Murdered by the HBC.
And you.
Humiliated by Lord Benton.
Framed for a massacre.
Wounded.
I'm going North to Fort James.
Perhaps you'd like to join me.
You have unfinished business
there,
and you will leave
Elizabeth Carruthers...
to me.
Think about it.
Carefully.
(Receding footsteps)
(Door opens and closes)
- What a fuckin' wanker.
(Flames crackle)
♪♪♪
(Door opens)
- On your knees, dog!
(Musket rattles)
Johnson is dead, my Lord.
- And Declan Harp?
- Gone, my Lord.
- The Company won't stand
for this.
They'll come after you.
I guarantee it.
- Get out.
Gather your men.
Arrest every one
of his soldiers.
They're about to have
a very difficult winter.
And unless you wish
to join them,
you will recapture Declan Harp.
(Receding footsteps)
(Grunts)
♪♪♪